Maplike and Setlike objects in Map and Set (#27160)
mdn/content: files/en-us/glossary/maplike_object/index.md

---
title: Map-like objects
slug: Glossary/Maplike_object
page-type: glossary-definition
---

> **`Map`-like objects** (or "maplike objects") are objects that behave like a [`Map`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Map), in that they have the same properties, methods, and behaviour.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**`Map`-like objects** (or "maplike objects") are objects that behave like a [`Map`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Map) by sharing some properties, methods, and behavior.
```

However they are not derived from `Map`, and unlike `Map` they support only specific types for the keys and values of each entry.

`Map`-like objects are ordered and can be iterated in the same sequence as they were added to the object, for example using [`for...of`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/for...of) or [`forEach()`](#foreach) loops.
Just like `Map`, they also provide methods to get the number of entries, to check whether a particular key is present, and to get a particular value for a key.

The objects may be read-only, or read-writable:

- A read-only `Map`-like object has the property [`size`](#size), and the methods: [`entries()`](#entries), [`forEach()`](#foreach), [`get()`](#get), [`has()`](#has), [`keys()`](#keys), [`values()`](#values), and [`@@iterator`](#iterator).
- An object that is also writeable will additionally have the methods: [`clear()`](#clear), [`delete()`](#delete), and [`set()`](#set).

> <!-- distinquish from iterable and setlike -->

Reviewer 2: typo

```suggestion
<!-- distinguish from iterable and setlike -->
```

    See [`Map.prototype[@@iterator]()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Map/@@iterator) for details.

Writeable `Map`-like objects (only) also have these methods:

- `clear()`
  - : Removes all elements from the object.
    See {{jsxref("Map.prototype.clear()")}} for details.
- `delete()`
  - : Removes the entry for a specified key from the object.
    See {{jsxref("Map.prototype.delete()")}} for details.
- `set()`
  - : Adds or updates an entry in a object with a specified key and a value.
    See {{jsxref("Map.prototype.set()")}} for details.

## Supported objects

Readonly:

- {{domxref("AudioParamMap")}}
- {{domxref("RTCStatsReport")}}
- {{domxref("EventCounts")}}
- {{domxref("KeyboardLayoutMap")}}
- {{domxref("MIDIInputMap")}}
- {{domxref("MIDIOutputMap")}}

## Specification IDL

The specification for a `Map`-like object will include the `maplike` keyword, followed by the key and value types in angle brackets.
If the object is also read-only, it will be prefixed by the `readonly` keyword (otherwise the object is readable and writable).

For example, the relevant part of the IDL definition for the readonly {{domxref("RTCStatsReport")}} looks like this:

> ```idl

Reviewer 2: We only support `webidl` - https://github.com/mdn/yari/blob/main/build/syntax-highlight.ts#L56

```suggestion
```webidl
```
